

@BALU-TEXT = Looking back at 1986, the City Polytechnic of Hong Kong 
(CPHK) was in its temporary campus in Mongkok, with no recreational 
facilities for its students. No CPHK computing graduates had yet entered 
the market. The four-year-long Professional Diploma in Computer Studies 
had no international recognition. Yet you took the courage to venture 
into this course. Four years later you have now graduated with an 
internationally recognized bachelor's degree in Computer Studies. 
You witnessed the visit of the UK Council for National Academic Awards 
panel in early 1987, and the visit of the British Computer Society 
panel in late 1987. You saw the move to the permanent campus in the 
summer of 1988 and, at the same time, the beginning of your industrial 
placement in the sandwich degree course. The industry had an early 
taste of what was going to come; and, they had no hestitation in openly 
declaring their enthusiasm for you all. Congragulations and thank 
you for acting as CPHK ambassadors.

@BALU-TEXT = This year, 1990, marks a turning point in your life. 
At the CPHK, it is seeing the formation of the Faculty System and 
the split of Computer Studies into Information Systems and Computer 
Science. Our industrial links became stronger with the inauguration 
of the HK$4 million joint UNISYS - CPHK research centre on Asian Language 
Development. The Master of Arts degree in Information Systems commenced, 
after a successful validation by the UK Council for National Academic 
Awards. A proposal for Master of Science degree in Computer Science 
was submitted to the Hong Kong Council for Academic Accreditation. 
About twenty students graduated in July with a Master of Science degree 
in Data Processing of the University of Ulster. (All teaching/examinations 
are conducted by CPHK staff here in Hong Kong for this course.)

@BALU-TEXT = You enter the Hong Kong Information Technology industry 
when it is facing an acute manpower shortage crisis. Young graduates 
in Hong Kong assume supervisory and leadership positions very early 
in their career, campared to their counterparts elsewhere in the world. 
Hong Kong is moving from a Newly Industrialized Country (NIC) to full 
fledged industrialized and sophisticated place akin to western countries. 
As such, it has an important role to play, in the modernization of 
the People's Republic of China. This, combined with the leadership 
role which you are expected to play rather early in your career, mentioned 
above, puts a heavy responsibility on your shoulders. Based on my 
observation of you all in raising to challenges and in tackling obstacles 
in the past four years, I am fully confident that you all will be 
shining stars of Hong Kong.

@BALU-TEXT = Best wishes and good luck to you all both in your professional 
career and in your personal life.

@BALU-TEXT = 

@BALU-TEXT = 

@BALU-TEXT = N V Balasubramanian

@BALU-TEXT = Head, Department of Computer Studies

