My Words to the Graduates

Dear BScCS-4 (1990),

Graduation is a time of great rejoicing. Each of you
have good reasons to be proud of your accomplishments. The many long 
days and nights of preparation for the beginning of your career should 
pay off nicely. I give you sincere congratulations and honor for a 
job well done. To have successfully labored through four demanding 
years of a difficult program is an honor indeed. May you continue 
to do your best helping your company to succeed and providing for 
your family's well-being.

Regarding technical advice, I only have three comments.
First, beware of computer addiction. It is very easy to lose balance 
and to let the computer and your job consume all your time and energy. 
Second, do not be afraid of change. Our field is one of the most volatile 
and dynamic fields of study on earth.  You can stay abreast on technology 
- not by frantically  reading about every new thing, but by "leap 
frogging" new developments from time to time. Try to gain the essence 
of the product or concept. Search deeper if you have the time. Third, 
learn how to find excitement in any job that you are requested to 
perform. All peoples are given work that can be considered boring, 
tedious, unexciting, etc. But, those who are happy at their jobs find 
ways to be creative. Even documentation can be a creative work when 
you are able to design the layout and format of the chapters and sections 
in order to publish a professional and beautiful document in form 
and content.

I have good memories of teaching you through your first two years.
Despite your efforts to break me of my habit, I still say
"excellent!" to my students. Your diligence and attitudes continue 
to challenge me. While you have many academic strengths, I encourage 
you to focus on sharpening your skills of good judgement, creative 
thought, integrity, and innovation. I have high expectations for you 
all.

Sincerely,

Bradley R. Swim

Background

Bradley R. Swim received the B.A. degree in Mathematics from
Point Loma Nazarene College, San Diego, CA in 1979, and the
M.S. degree (with distinction honors) in Computer Science
from California State University, Northridge, CA in 1990.

From 1979 to 1986 he was a software engineer at McDonnell
Douglas Astronautics Company,Huntington Beach, CA, where he
researched and developed various support software
development tools oriented towards microprocessor
architectures. Other projects included the development of
support software for RISC and non-RISC architectures.
During 1986 to 1988 he lectured at the City Polytechnic of
Hong Kong in the areas of computer architectures, operating
systems, compilers, and programming languages. His current
interests are in object oriented development methods and
tools facilitating software measurement, program development
environments, and computer architectures.
