My_Words_to_the_graduates (By William Tung)

To : Bsc (Hons) CS - Class of '90
     City Polytechnic of Hong Kong

It is with great pleasure that I write this note to you. For a moment
I thought I was back in the lecture theatre, talking to
each and every one of you.

I have left the City Polytechnic for just over a year now.
Looking back, if I have any regret about my departure, it has to
be missing my students. I particularly regret not being able to
spend your final year of study with you. I just know that we
could have so much more to share and talk about (academically,
professionally, and socially) after your year of industrial
placement experience.

I did have the opportunity to talk to quite a few of you at
various occasions over the last 12 months. While it is not my
style to indulge others with flattery, I really want to tell you
that I am very impressed with the maturity, the sense of
confidence, and the feeling of competence I detected in you. It
gave me much pride and joy to think that I might have contributed 
just that little bit to the well being of this class. I have
full confidence that you will all succeed in becoming very good
software engineers ... ugh ... I mean ... computer professionals.

My best wishes in your future endeavours.

                                             William Tung

Background

William Tung left for Canada after completing Lower Six at
St. Paul's College. He obtained both his bachelor's and
Master's degrees from the University of Alberta and spent
over 12 years in the computing industry in Canada.

A majority of his professional career was with a computer
service bureau in Western Canada, where he successfully
managed several multi-million dollar software development
projects and provided consultancies to numerous public and
private organizations throughout Canada and the U.S. He was
manager responsible for Software Product Design when he
returned to Hong Kong and joined the City Polytechnic in
1986, as Senior Lecturer and later Principal Lecturer.

While at the City Polytechnic, he lectured extensively in
the areas of Software Engineering and Database Systems and
is co-author of a distance learning package in Software
Engineering.

In 1989 Mr. Tung joined the newly established Centre of
Computing Services and Telecommunications of the H.K.
University of Science and Technology. He is currently
associate director responsible for information system
development.
