FidoNews 12-14                 Page:  3                    03 Apr 1995

Freedom, Network, Future World.
by S.C.Martin Wong (6:700/760)

   Computer network develop very rapidly after 1992.In U.S.A,
a lot of people is using InterNet.In Hong Kong, over 1000 BBS is
running, a lot of is using InterNet via InterNet Services
Provider (ISP).But some troubles is happening now.We must solve
these troubles quickly to protect  the  computer  network
development and the human rights.

   In March, Hong Kong some ISP were closed because OFTA and
police forced these ISP close down by telecommucation act.In
Hong Kong, every people open BBS or ISP, if the BBS and ISP
provide any E-Mail, these BBS and ISP should have PNETS license
and pay 9cents/per min to Hong Kong Telecom.But most of BBS and
ISP haven't any PNETS license, that mean most of BBS and ISP in
Hong Kong is illegal, expect some file-oriented BBS.

   We can say this law is out-dated.But some large ISP use
this law hope make a big barrier to block another people use
"Information Highway".I think the Hong Kong Government do not
up-date the law, nobody can believe Hong Kong people have any
human rights after 1997.

  In U.S.A, the new telecommucation act make the network
citizen lose a lot of rights which we must have.I think some
stupid politican hope make some stupid law to restrict the human
rights in network.But these politican will destroy  U.S.A
economic future by these laws.

  But if government haven't anty laws to restrict some people
do some absurd thing in network, network will be a black places
in the world.Then , what can we do?

   In my opinion, government should make some suitable laws
with BBS system operator, ISP owner, university professer and
some professional people in network world or computer world.Some
points is every law maker should know, and use these points to
make the law : -

   - These law can protect the human rights.
   - These law can block the people to do some illegal things
     in network world.
   - These law can make the network citizen have a equal opportunity
     to use "Information Highway".
   - These law is easy to execute.
   - These law can up-date very easily.
   - These law can make some pressure to every ISP provide better
     services in the acceptable prices.

   "Information Highway" is a turning point of human history,
"Information Highway" development is another important
revolution of human history.I hope every government in the world
can use the suitable policy to welcome this revolution, don't do
any stupid thing to welcome.
