FidoNews 5-19                Page 4                    9 May 1988

     SEAnet/2 - Hong Kong                    IFNA node 3:700/13.0


                 A POTENTIAL SECURITY PROBLEM IN OPUS
                 ------------------------------------

     Our turn?

     To every BBS, it seems, there comes a Hacker - and we've just
     had our first major attempt at gaining unauthorized access to
     our system.

     As  we  use Opus 1.03b which is,  to say the least,  a rather
     widely used system we have decided to  share  our  experience
     with  you in the hopes that you may avoid similar occurrences
     on your own systems.

     The  hacker  in  question  used a very simple,  but powerful,
     method which could - had things gone according to his plan  -
     have  allowed him to gain full control of the machine running
     Opus.  This  would  have  included  access  to  all  the  BBS
     utilities on the machine.

     Such a success would,  of course, meant that the hacker would
     have been able to completely cover his tracks,  even  leaving
     the Sysop unaware that his system had been compromised.

     Due to some luck (good for us,  bad for the hacker) he failed
     in his attempts to control our system,  and merely managed to
     crash it leaving the system down for several hours.

     A debate
     --------
     There  is  always  something  of  a  debate  over whether the
     methodology behind such things as Virus programs, Trojans and
     so on should be publicly revealed in full detail.

     The argument against full disclosure is seated  in  the  idea
     that  we should not risk telling other people how such things
     can be accomplished in the hope that no more people will find
     out than already know.

     Opposing this is the belief that only by letting people  know
     about  a danger,  and by fully informing them of that danger,
     can ways be developed to combat the danger.

     The two arguments might be summarized as the "Keep quiet  and
     hope it goes away" against the "Forewarned is forearmed".

     It  is  in  the  light of the latter belief that this article
     will explain what the hacker did, and how he did it.

     I do of course advise all those who think their systems might
     be susceptible to this line of attack to  protect  themselves
     at once in the manner I will describe shortly.


     The Method
     ----------
     Basically what the hacker did was to take  advantage  of  the
     fact  that  we do not make much use of the *.GBS files in our
     Opus system.

     For  those  unfamiliar  with  .GBS  files  I  should pause to
     explain that these are the graphic equivalents  to  the  .BBS
     files  containing  system  logos,  file lists,  menus and the
     like.

     People with ANSI graphics set ON will see what is in the .GBS
     files,  while  those with it off will see what is in the .BBS
     file.

     This allows users with ANSI capability to take full advantage
     of that  system,  while  still  producing  perfectly  legible
     displays for those without ANSI support.

     The  hacker  uploaded a file called FILES.GBS to a file area,
     as no such file existed previously the system allowed him to
     do this.

     This file was a text file containing OANSI embedded  commands
     to shell to DOS and perform various functions.

     These  included  DEL  *.LOG in a successful attempt to remove
     the system logs and so cover his trail.

     The  hacker  then tried to run the remote sysop utility using
     this system, luckily for us he was unaware of which com: port
     we are using.  By performing CTTY  with  the  wrong  port  he
     managed to crash the system.

     Protection
     ----------
     Protecting  against  further  attempts  to  do  this is quite
     simple,  we have now set the upload paths for all file  areas
     to  a  directory  that  is only available from a file area in
     which the F)iles and T)ypes command are disabled.

     Sysops will have to check this area and hurl (real problem as
     Opus won't hurl across multiple drives) files into the  areas
     they are intended for. Not entirely satisfactory, but it's a
     solution.

     Raymond C Lowe
