FidoNews 11-42                 Page: 11                    17 Oct 1994

What is the effect of the NET700 case to the world?
Your right to international communication is at stake.
-----------------------------------------------------

What is the NET700 case?  Owing to personal feud between the RC and
the NC, the NC was suddenly fired with reasons that the majority of
sysops did not accept.  A new NC was appointed by the RC and a
cleansing exercise started.  New NC demanded all sysops to apply for
Fidonet membership again, or else be kicked out.  The reason: he needs
to know the information of all nodes.  This is a very bad excuse as
the information of all nodes is already in the NET700 nodelist which
has been in use for many years satisfactorily.

The present status is that all sysops (about 600) continue to use the
existing nodelist and happily communicating with each other under the
Fidonet Hong Kong.  Only a few (about 30) responded to the new NC, but
they still keep the existing nodelist and also happily communicating
with all fidonet sysops in Hong Kong.

Here comes the ugly abuse of authority.  The NC just fielded the 30
odds nodes to the international nodelist.  So the world now sees a
shrunken Hong Kong net from a prosperous and busy network to a tiny
and quiet place of 30 nodes.  You may know that Hong Kong is a tiny
island in size but a giant in economy and hi-tech communication.  How
come the 600 sysops who devoted time and money to telecommunication
suddenly all committed a fatal crime and were ex-communicated from the
world renowned network?

Something is definitely wrong.

The nucleus of the event is in the RC of Region 61 who brought his
personal feud to the world.  New NC is his front (probably aka RC).
ZC is also stupid enough to be caught in the event without seeing the
consequence.

Hong Kong sysops are furious.  Complaints are being made to ZC and IC.
There are also legal actions being planned to sue the NC.  This naive
guy thinks he can't go to jail for this and claims to be a hero, being
a beloved subordinate of a powerful RC and has the power to stand up
again 600 others.  He doesn't realise that the civil action against
him may cost him millions of dollars in the end.

As it now stands, NET700 is running smoothly locally.  The only
damaging thing the NC/RC/ZC have done is the abuse of their authority
in manipulating the international nodelist.  The IC has to do
something to maintain the integrity of this important document which
is used by the world.

In the meantime, your right to international communication is in
stake.  Remember when you want to join the wonderful Fidonet to reach
the world.  Now because of improper management, this Fidonet is in the
danger of falling apart.  You can see that a main chunk of Hong Kong
has been lost.  This wonderful city of 600 nodes is largely out of
reach to you now.  Is there a way to curd this kind of irresponible
behaviour of the appointed personnels?  Is the information super
highway really in need of regulating.  Fidonet is a fine example of a
well orgainsed network of amateurs.  But this things really put people
off and make them turn elsewhere.

Meanwhile, guys in Hong Kong are still striving to save the net.
Demands are being made to the IC for the reinstatment of all Net700
nodes.  Whether Fidonet can be healthy again is now in his hand.

Raymond Poon
(6:700/7 ex-communicated?)
